---
headless: true
title: COVID-19 Update
weight: 1
---

It was with great sadness that we had to cancel Elijah, only our fourth concert
under the leadership of Buddy James, who was off to a wonderful and dynamic
start. As we cannot guarantee the safety of our patrons or of Schola itself, if
we meet physically over the next few months, we have also had to make the
difficult choice to call off our Summer Sings. Finally, although we had already
moved our annual gala to August, again we feel that for the safety of all, we
will not be able to gather for that wonderful event either.

We are looking at alternative virtual offerings for both the Summer Sings and
the Gala, but whatever they may turn out to be, they will be completely
different. The Gala, being the stellar event it is, will not happen as such
until we can all celebrate together.

The good news is that we still plan to give concerts and have hopes that we
might be able to resume that activity this Autumn, with consideration for the
health and well-being of our audience and our singers. We plan, if possible, to
still do our usual number of concerts, and the Messiah Sing is currently
scheduled for December 21, at the Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts.

Due to the cancelations, especially of the Gala, our budget is taking a massive
hit, but we are not beaten. We would also like to resume, when possible, the
robust programming we know you enjoy and expect. In some ways, we are struggling
to ensure the future of choral music in our area as Schola Cantorum has been a
major contributing organization for 56 years. For now, we have cut our expenses
down to the bare necessities.

We would like to ask a favor. Please take a moment and consider giving what you
would have given at our annual Gala, even if that would only have been the $175
ticket. If you donâ€™t normally attend the Gala, we can use your help too. Our
goal is to raise $50,000 to help keep us from depleting our reserves, so that
when the clouds lift, Schola will still be there for the community to celebrate
the joy of singing.

You can [make a donation online](/donations).  Alternatively, checks can be made
payable to Schola Cantorum and sent to 2218 Old Middlefield Way, Mountain View,
CA, 94043. Thank you for your generosity, and for helping us continue to fulfill
our mission: to celebrate the joy of singing.

Best wishes for your health and safety,<br>
Dan Morris, Executive Director
