---
weight: 1
---

## Gregory Wait, Music Director

<img src="/leadership/wait.jpg" class="float-left">
Gregory Wait has enjoyed a richly varied musical career as a singer, conductor,
and teacher. Recently named the Billie Bennett Achilles Director of Vocal
Studies on the Stanford University Music Department faculty, he also conducted
the Memorial Church Choir for thirty years, and maintains a vigorous teaching
schedule. In recognition of his commitment to the principles of successful
higher education, Wait received the Dean’s Award for Distinguished Teaching in
1998, and was honored by his students and colleagues for his years of service to
the university. Many of his students have gone on to pursue careers on the
world’s stages and concert halls. The Memorial Church Choir also commissioned
Stanford alumnus Kirke Mechem to compose his *Missa Brevis (‘Trinity’)* as a
tribute to his leadership.

As tenor soloist, he made his mark in recital, in opera, and on the concert
stage, having made his Carnegie Hall debut singing the *Requiem* of Alfred
Schnittke. Hailed as “one of the leading exponents of (Benjamin) Britten’s vocal
works,” he premiered works by Lou Harrison and William Kraft, and gave the first
American performance of Alessandro Scarlatti’s *Magnificat* from his *Vespers of
St. Cecilia*. His repertoire encompassed lieder and songs, the oratorios of
Handel, the Passions of Johann Sebastian Bach, and numerous Bach cantatas,
having served as soloist at the prestigious Carmel Bach Festival for over
fifteen seasons. He came to national recognition as tenor soloist in the Davies
Symphony Hall (San Francisco) televised *Sing-it-Yourself Messiah* on PBS, and
has subsequently concertized throughout the United States, from the Anchorage
Music Festival to Santa Fe. As conductor, Stanford audiences will long remember
his performances of Mozart’s *Requiem* commemorating the first and tenth
anniversaries of the attacks of September 11, 2001.

Now in his thirtieth season as music director of Schola Cantorum, he has
received accolades from critics and the public alike for his vivid
interpretations of choral masterworks, and for his commitment to the performance
of new music. Under Wait’s leadership, Schola Cantorum has commissioned and
performed numerous premieres, notably the *Missa Gaia* (“Mass for the Earth”) by
Libby Larsen as well as Alva Henderson and Dana Gioia’s *Winter Requiem*. During
Schola Cantorum’s 50th anniversary season, he conducted premieres by John
Cavallaro, Frank Ferko, and Eric Tuan. Schola Cantorum’s compact disc recording
of Benjamin Britten’s *Ceremony of Carols* has also gained considerable critical
attention. In recognition of his passionate and inspirational leadership in
making the choral art a deeply meaningful and joyous element in our community,
Mr. Wait earned the highest commendation of Silicon Valley Creates (formerly
Arts Council Silicon Valley), the *Arts Leadership Award*. As director of the
Congregational Concert Series in Palo Alto, and as conductor of the
Congregational Oratorio Society, he has presented countless concerts by local
artists for local audiences, including conducting and singing the Evangelist in
Bach’s *Matthäus-Passion*. Seven European tours as conductor of the
Congregational Chamber Choir have provided international audiences the
opportunity to hear his performances at historic venues in England, France,
Italy, Switzerland, Russia, and Scandinavia. Most recently, he served a choral
residency at Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, China. Mr.
Wait is also an arranger and composer, and is frequently engaged as a lecturer
and clinician for choral and vocal festivals.
